# **KODAMA**

A Linux Tensorflow based AI which learns about content you enjoy, Kodama plays music and video content for you based on your mood and what you usually like when in that mood.

This project is being built in Openframeworks (C++) with Python interactions (achieved with ofxFifo). The idea is to have the main bulk of the program in C++ with the Python scripts acting as appendages,this enables faster more modular debugging as the C++ program can run without being rebuilt/re-run while debugging the Python scripts. The usage of Python also enables easier use of ready-made Keras models.

This is the current working description, likely to change.


Notes:

Name ideas:
Kodama Emotional Support System 
Kess

(!!!) <== Nessesary for Kodama to be at all functional


------USER EMOTION DETECTORS--------
Below will share a similar system which detects happiness/sadness(up/down) and excited/bored(right/left).
Sadness = lazy, ambient, moody, dark, atonal, minor.
Happiness = wakeful, bright, cheerful, major.
System is biased towards 'wanting' to create happiness ut not excitement (happy/excited are two different parameters).
excitement/bored are neutral parameters (not all situations call for excitement).
attention is a secondary (but important) 'desire'. System learns what creates maximum amount of attention and happiness.
Good for kids, music events, installastions -- would be quite draining as a personal program I think but perhaps has some kind of theraputic benefit. Its potential utility for a single device user would be the mood following, perhaps there could be three modes which act slightly different (one for installation/event, children, and single user). Single user version wouldn't desire attention as much and would focus on the playlist system, whereas children/installation version would.

Emotion Detection (Face) -- Ready.

Emotion Detection (Voice) -- OfxAudioAnalyzer to python working, python back to Ofx not working yet.

Gesture detection -- Nothing yet (!!!).

Attention detection -- Nothing yet.

------CONTENT LEARNING--------------

Darknet Detection -- Python Ready. Need to try it with openframeworks.

Bitwig OSC into OFX -- Bitwig is up and running, has audio engine problems however.

Playlist system -- Nothing yet (!!!).

-----KODAMA-------------------------

Association Learning -- Nothing yet.

Generative Music -- Nothing yet (Bitwig or puredata).

Responsive video content -- Nothing yet (Darknet required).

Anime girl AI graphic content -- Nothing yet.

IDEAS:

If you yell angrily at Kodama she should become upset and teary eyed!

For voice input filter out the low end. Make sure in installtion set up the speakers are directed away from the mic and the audio pick up thresold is high enough (avoid feedback loop). If nothing works, have her listen only when she isn't playing music. (there should always be very soft ambient music on even in this off peiord)

Kodama learns music features AND learns what music features tie to what musical parameters rather than tie music pars to emotions

Create a character generator with cute space cats...?

In the GDC talk for Florence at 17:36 he discuesses an idea for a game which scrolls like social media or a website, this has given me inspiration for an idea. Same concept, white BG black outlined squares, but, content generated by Kodama is put inside the squares (which appear and then pile up like social media messaging), Kodama herself appears in some of the boxes and comments on the current emotional stability of the user in some crpytic fanciful way. Whats wonderful about this is that instead of Kodama just presenting the user with content, one at a time, the user can now engage with the content in some way which opens up the application for more complexities. e.g the user can scroll back up and see what kodama had recently showed them, the user can click on the comic-like boxes and kodama can give some information regarding the users typical reaction to this type of content. additionally, this is perfect for the application being on a phone system like android. 

